ey hey!

It's a beautiful Friday afternoon here in Östersund, Sweden, and it's time for this week's newsletter.

Let's get right to it!
 

What I Learned
In the early 1980s, Coca-Cola was on the edge of losing the cola war to their rivals Pepsi. The previous 15 years, Coke’s market share had remained flat while Pepsi’s climbed steadily. To make matters worse, more and more consumers were switching to diet soft drinks and non-cola beverages.

So, Coca-Cola decided to do something drastic. They started experimenting with their original formula. A new recipe was put forth, and it seemed very promising. Blind taste tests showed people liked the new formula more than regular Coke and Pepsi by a large margin.

In 1985, they launched the new and improved version of their drink. But despite the test results, the response from the public was terrible. After being bombarded by phone calls, 40,000 letters, and tons of bad press, the company reintroduced their original formula within three months.

Interestingly, the return of “Coca-Cola Classic” resulted in a significant increase in sales. That made some people speculate that the introduction of the new formula was a marketing ploy to stimulate sales of the original drink. The Coca-Cola Company, however, maintains that it was a genuine attempt to replace the original product.

Regardless, the introduction of the new coke recipe is an excellent example of what psychologists call the "status quo bias"; We like things the way they already are, and so we treat any changes to the current state of affairs with a lot of skepticism and resistance. It's why we tend to, for example:

Go to the same restaurant, sit in the same spot, and order the same dish.
Stick with the same Internet, phone, and TV providers.
Use the same bank, savings options, and insurance company.
There’s nothing inherently wrong with those choices. In fact, the status quo bias can help us save energy and prevent unnecessary risks. But it can also make us miss out on great opportunities. So, whenever you feel like turning down a new option, ask yourself why that is. Is your default option truly better, or are you just being swayed by the comfort of the status quo? You might just find something much better than what you already have. Like, say, a better tasting cola. :)

Oh, and if you want to find out how to use the status quo bias to change your habits, check out this article.
 

What's New
I'm happy to report that this week's writing went very well! The first draft of The Decision Making Blueprint grew by three chapters, and I feel like the text was pretty good quality. I still have a long way to go, but I'm excited to write about such a fascinating subject.

In other good news, the audiobook versions of my previous two books are finally getting distributed to vendors! Hopefully, they'll be ready for listening next week, or the week after that. I'll keep you posted!

What I Found Useful
If you're an aspiring writer, I highly recommend my good friend Niklas Goeke's brand new course Write Like a Pro. Nik is one of the most prolific, profitable, and likable writers I know, so I know it's going to be awesome. If you buy it before October 19th, you'll get a 50% presale discount:

—> Check out Write Like a Pro <—

Note: This is an affiliate offer, which means that if you buy the course, I'll earn a commission at no additional cost to you. Thanks for your support!
 

That's All for Now!
Have a great weekend in your corner of the world, and I'll see you next week!

Stay awesome,
Patrik Edblad
Mental Trainer & Author
www.selfication.com
 


Järnåldersvägen 13, 83161, Östersund, SWEDEN

Unsubscribe | Change Subscriber Options 

